>> [MUSIC]
>> Kyle Simpson: You can also
return functions from function.
So passing them as parameters is one way,
returning them.
Here I take the inner function.
In this case an inner anonymous
function from lines four through six.
I return it out.
So on line ten, the first set of
parentheses gets the function.
The inner function back.
And in the microsecond between the first
set of parentheses, and the second set of
parentheses, that function object has been
transported outside of his lexical scope,
and yet he's still able to access
the lexical scope and that is closure.
>> Kyle Simpson: Questions so far?
>> Kyle Simpson: This should start to
look a little more familiar with some
of these examples.
>> Kyle Simpson: When you pass
a function into a set timeout.
Any kind of callback.
And that function is able
to remember the variable.
The way it does that,
if you think about it,
inside of the engine somewhere
there's a set timeout utility.
And he gets a little callback called CB
and he'll execute them at some point.
He's executing your function well
outside of his lexical scope.
But your function still
remembers the lexical scope, and
that's because of closure.
>> Speaker 1: In this particular example,
what if bar were to change, the value bar.
>> Kyle Simpson: Yeah.
>> Speaker 1: Were to change within
given 100,000.
>> Kyle Simpson: That's exactly what I
meant by saying it's not like a snapshot.
It's an actual live link
back to the actual scope.
So if you changed it between the time you
set it up, and the time the timer fired,
it would access the current
value at that moment.
>> Kyle Simpson: Another example,
if you're familiar with any kind of
frameworks that do click handlers.
You set up your click handlers and
your click handlers are able to remember
something about their environment.
That's entirely because of closure.
Closure is a necessary mechanism for
a language with first class
functions as values to be useful.
If functions could be passed around
with their values but they couldn't
remember anything about their lexical
scope, nobody would pass functions around.
The only reason why we find this useful
is because they implicitly have this
capability called closure.
>> Kyle Simpson: This again references,
it doesn't matter how many functions have
a closure over the scope, they all
have a closure over the same scope.
You can think about scope,
by the way this is another way to
kind of process it in your brain.
You're probably familiar with the idea
of garbage collection in JavaScript.
Maybe that might be a little
bit confusing to you,
but let's just say that in JavaScript if
you keep a reference to an object around,
that object doesn't get garbage collected.
So if you had ten different references
to it and nine of them went away,
but one of them was still there,
it still wasn't garbage collected.
Soon as the tenth reference goes away,
now it can garbage collect it.
The same, similar kind of mechanism
is at work with your scope.
When you execute a function,
it creates a scope object.
If there's anybody that gets a reference
to that scope object via closure,
that scope doesn't get garbage
collected when the function ends.
It keeps the scope around and
it can continue to keep modifying it and
accessing it.
As long as there's still one function,
at least one function with a closure over
the scope, that scope doesn't go away.
So here we've got two different functions.
The one on four through six and
the one on seven through nine.
Both functions have a closure
over the same scope.
Which means when the first
one runs he updates bar,
when the second one runs he
updates the exact same bar.
>> Kyle Simpson: It's all levels,
it's not restricted.
So whatever the entire
nested deep level is,
here we have a bar
referencing one level up.
This bar is now referencing two levels up.
The exact same bar in this baz
is referencing a different.
So it maintains the entire scope
however nested and deep it is for
as long as is necessary.
That is what we call closure.
Questions so far about closure?
All right,
now this is the canonical example for
illustrating how closure works, and
it references this idea with loops and
with functions inside of them.
The spirit of this exercise,
is that I would be able to loop through,
and have at the one second mark,
have it print out i1,
at the two second mark
have it print out i2,
at the three second mark have
it print out i3, i4, and i5.
I want each one of you to click the code
me icon down in the bottom left,
and I want you to tell me what
it prints out in your console.
>> Kyle Simpson: What
are you getting it to say?
>> Speaker 2: Six is to six.
>> Kyle Simpson: Prints out six.
Five different times, right?
So the reason for that is what's wrong
with our understanding of closure, and
that's why we show this example,
to kind of explain when closure's not
behaving the way we want, it's because
we have an incomplete understanding of
what the closure would really mean.
We have here this implicit idea, normally
I would kinda belabor this as a big
exercise, but just to keep us on track,
I'll just go ahead and
shortcut to it, that what we have here
is we need to ask ourselves what's
missing from this example that's
preventing it from working.
So the way we could ask the question
is if I'm getting i66666,
well, we can explain why
that happens pretty clearly.
It's that the i at the end
of loop ends up as 6.
And so when these functions run 1,000 and
2,000 and 3,000 times,
obviously i is already 6 by the time
those functions are running.
But what's really wrong is,
why don't we have five different i values?
In other words,
why don't we have five different i's?
Because for some reason the way
our developer brains work,
when we did this loop,
we seem to think that these functions,
we're getting a whole new i for
each iteration of the loop.
But they're not, are they?
There are five different functions
that are closing over the exact
same global scope.
It's no different than if I wrote the set
timeout one after the other five times on
top of each other like I
did a couple slides ago.
Something about the loop confuses us into
thinking that there's something more
magical going on.
This is five separate anonymous functions
that close over the exact same scope,
that is the global scope
that only has one i in it.
So,we can ask the question,
what's missing?
What could I do to this piece of
code that would allow it to have
a different i for each iteration?
To have a whole different scope for
each iteration.
And that solution is typically the iffy.
Remember how functions create scope.
So if we were to put in an iffy inside of
the loop, each loop would get its own i.
And the functions inside of them,
if you were to try this code,
if you click on the code me and
you try it, it will now run correctly.
It'll print 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, because we
have a whole different scope created for
each iteration.
So each one of those functions is closing
over an iteration scope rather than just
over the global scope.
>> Kyle Simpson: [COUGH] Yeah?
>> Speaker 3: If you use let-
>> Kyle Simpson: We're getting there,
wait just a minute.
This is the canonical solution to it is
that you put an if E inside of the loop,
because what was really missing was that
we wanted a scope for each iteration.
Everybody with me on that?